
# EMS/PoS development meeting

Present: JPL/PW/LGB/JG/KKS

## 1. Ephemeral

A draft of the Ephemeral Message paper was put together for circulation to a limited audience for feedback and review.

## 2. Hard fork

**Decision to proceed with a hard fork following code audit to allow the creation of Ephemeral Message Layer applications**

This will add a new transaction type, previously called ‘lattice’ to store ephemeral message public keys in the chain.  Additionally, the hard fork will include previously tested features:

- deterministic addresses (QIP003)
- multisignature addresses (QIP004)
- on-chain voting/polls (QIP in draft)
- extended message transaction functionality (QIP005)

## 3. Proof-of-stake

**PoS roadmap developed**

Future potential PoS schemes discussed in detail, with evolution of our previous protocol.  Quantum Resistant Verifiable Random number Function (QR-VRF) research ongoing and undertaken in parallel with consensus algorithm implementation with XMSS.  Separate PoS/EMS testnets to be created.

## 4. Signature schemes

All existing NIST candidates for stateless PQ signature schemes discussed based on PK/Sig size, computational cost and security.  Decision taken to use EMS to communicate between stake validators using Dilithium/Kyber.

## 5. NIST XMSS RFC

Response reviewed, discussed and amended.  Methods of assuring XMSS best practices in both the protocol layer and front-end discussed.

## 6. Development roadmap

Existing development roadmap reviewed.  Core team expansion to facilitate new plans discussed.
